physical conditioning with Richard
Gonzales the exercise time for each
station should be tennis specific an
alternative time strategy would be for
the player to begin the station without
knowledge of the duration 20-second rest
between each station after each set of
six stations the player should rest for
90 seconds there should be a total of
eight to twelve stations the exercise
station should aim to target the
anaerobic a lactic energy system working
with anaerobic step focus on cross
stepping and dynamic direction changes a
variation to improve coordination would
be to vary crossing the aerobic step
alternating between side steps and then
cross steps station two this exercise
uses plyometrics and quick explosive
jumps directions and weight transfer
finishing with a short sprint variations
could include making consecutive jumps
compulsory cross steps or even reacting
to a stimuli voice bull or lights
you
Station three Station three focuses on
body posture and core stability the
exercise incorporates arm as well as
abdominal work to improve muscle
stabilization and to aid with injury
prevention rotational strength and
posture station for this exercise
focuses on acceleration and agility
reaction work coaches use the cone
colors as a reference for the direction
of the player to move
you
station 5 this exercise uses plyometric
movement over hurdles and cones
combining jumping with footwork
coordination
you
here in station six you can see that the
player is performing lateral movement
along one line using the cones as a
reference change direction by planting
the outside foot keep your shoulders
Square and upright posture
you
in station seven the player hops through
the ladder changing feet halfway through
whilst using the aerobic steps for a
direction change advance the drill by
only using one foot for the entire
exercise
you
station 8 quick and sharp crossing foot
movements along a line
move both forward and backward
you
station nine foot coordination in a 3x3
grid keep body posture upright
stay tuned ten lateral coordination
through a ladder stay on your toes
keeping shoulders Square and upright
posture